All right, well,
welcome to the second-to-last
session of the day,
of the week, I think.
Hope it's been a good week for you.
This is probably the most
important session in the week.
Well, at least we'd like to think so.
But this session is important because
the Address Book Framework figures
prominently into one of the steps
that it takes for you to make your
application a really great application
on Mac OS X from here on out.
And that is because the Address
Book Framework allows your application to
leverage a centralized contact database,
which means that every application,
theoretically,
in the future could be leveraging
the same contact information,
and the user will have a much
smoother user experience in
terms of saving contacts,
changing them, editing them,
and using them within
multiple applications.
So if you think about that whole process,
I think it really is an
interesting proposal,
and we would love to see next year.
We're at WWC that there are literally,
you know, tens or twenties or thirties
or forties of applications that
are leveraging Address Book.
So to talk to you about how
cool this is and how to use it,
and I'd like to introduce
Monsieur Henri Lamiraux.
Good afternoon.
In this session,
we're going to talk about
the Address Book Framework,
not the Address Book application,
but only the Address Book Framework,
which the Address Book application uses.
It's been a long-standing
request from developers.
I think since Mac OS X 10.0,
there's been a request for developers to
have a way to access the Address Book.
This new API is accessible from Carbon,
from Cocoa, and from AppleScript.
We made sure that all our
major frameworks can use it.
It's thread-safe.
You can access it from multiple
applications at the same time.
You can have mail or other applications,
Address Book,
and several other applications,
both using the same Address
Book Framework at the same time.
It's also extensible,
which means that we provide...
We provide a set of properties,
but you can, as an application developer,
add your own properties
to the Address Book.
Don't get too crazy.
It's not a general database.
It's not meant to be a general database.
It's just to manage people and groups.
But you can add your own
properties if you don't provide it.
So, as John said,
this is the Mac OS X centralized
storage for contacts,
for people and groups.
And it's going to be
used heavily in Jaguar.
Mail uses it, iChat uses it,
Address Book uses it, Sherlock,
Setup Assistant, a lot of applications on
Mac OS X will use this Address Book.
So it's very important for the user
that all information are in one place.
Adress Book Framework will be
available on Jaguar and later only.
And the database we use is
not backward compatible.
It means the database that's
going to be produced on Jaguar
won't be usable on 10.1.
But we automatically import a 10.1
database into Jaguar and convert it the
first time the address book is accessed,
the address book framework is accessed.
So any application,
not only address book,
but if Mel used the address
book framework the first time,
the database will be
converted at this time.
So I'm going to go through the API.
This is about API.
It's not about fancy demos,
but about APIs.
And we have a lot of things to cover.
So this is the overview,
what we're going to be
talking about today.
So let's start.
Let's start with AB Record.
The A/B record is really the base
of the Address Book Database.
It's basically a row inside
the Address Book Database.
Every A/B record has a unique ID,
a real unique ID, using the CF unique ID.
And it's an abstract base class
for two other types of rows,
which is the A/B person
and the A/B group.
Think of the A/B record as a
dictionary of property and value.
It's basically that.
It's just a list,
a dictionary of property and values,
and with a unique ID.
So what are the APIs for AB Record?
First of all, you can get the unique ID,
which is a string, and as I said,
a real unique ID.
And then we have three APIs to
be able to set a value.
But also, I'm going to use in your
slides Objective-C syntax,
but the C APIs are basically the same.
So you can set a value,
passing a value for a given property.
You can get a value for a property,
and you can also remove
a value for a property.
Which means that if you remove
a value for a given property,
next time you're going
to ask for the value,
it will be nil.
We support the concept of
nil in the Address Book.
Let's give you a sample of a
piece of code using those APIs.
You have a record.
You ask for a value for a property,
return the value.
Now,
depending if the value is nil or not nil,
you're going to do something.
You're going to do something here.
Then you'll be able to set the
value again for this given property.
Very simple model.
[Transcript missing]
is a unique name.
He has to have a unique name,
like first name, last name.
So if you start creating your own
properties you're going to add
to the schema of this database,
you need to use something
that's going to be unique,
com.mycompany.whatever.
So be sure that your
property will be unique.
Each property has a type, integer,
string, date.
And also it comes in two flavors,
single value and multi-value.
So, single value type.
We have KAB string property,
which is matched to a NSString.
KAB integer property, real, date, array,
dictionary, data.
Basically, the regular, the standard,
p-listable type that's supported
in foundation and core foundation.
Some example of single value property.
First name is a string.
Last name is a string.
Birthday is a date.
Nothing very, very bizarre or unusual.
But if you think about it,
single value works well
for your first name,
last name.
You only have one first name,
one last name, one birthday.
But when you start talking about phones,
emails, you don't have one phone,
you don't have one email,
you don't have -- we have
more than one address,
street address.
So single value properties don't
work for this type of data.
You still want to be able to say,
"Give me your emails," but
maybe multiple of them.
And also you may have
multiple home email,
multiple home phone, multiple work email.
So it's a bit more complex
than just a single value.
So what we need to be able to do for
email and phone is associate a label,
which is not unique, in a value.
So the type for multivalue
properties are the following.
They exactly match 101 with
a single value property.
We have multiple string,
multiple integer property, multi-reol,
et cetera, multi-date, multi-array,
multi-dictionary, multi-data.
And to be able to
encapsulate this new type,
we have created this new class,
which we call AB Multivalue.
AB stands for
A/B Multivalue Class.
Let's say that you have a person.
If you just want to get his first name,
you're going to say
Person ValueForPropertyFirstNameProperty.
You're going to get a string.
But for email, you're going to say
Person ValueForPropertyKABEmailProperty,
and you're going to get one
of those new A/B Multivalue.
An A/B multivalue is basically
another type of collection classes.
It's like NSDictionary, NSArray,
but it's a bit more complex.
In one of the original designs we had,
we were using a dictionary
for a multivalue.
The point is that we wanted
to have multiple labels.
So a dictionary,
you can't have multiple home labels,
you can't have multiple work labels.
So we moved to this A/B multivalue.
An A/B multivalue manages
an array of triplets.
You have a label, you have a value,
and you have an identifier.
So the label don't have to be unique.
For example,
you have multiple home email addresses.
The label can be any type of
string that describes this value.
We provide a set of standard labels,
homework that you can use,
but you can put whatever you want.
The value within one,
if you have an ABMultiValue,
all the value inside this ABMultiValue
object have to have the same type.
So if you have a multi-string property,
all the value has to be strings.
If you have an ABMultiDate property,
all the value must be of type NSDate.
The identifier provides you a
way to reference one particular
value inside this ABMultiValue.
Don't forget you have multiple
applications that can change this value.
If you start to save away
the index of one of them,
I want to save, "Oh,
my home is my third entry in this
multi-value," some other application can
come and completely change those values.
Third, three,
no point to maybe nothing or point to
something that was not what you meant.
We have this identifier that
uniquely identifies each
entry inside the multi-value.
Multi-value is just basically
an array of triplets,
identifier, label, and the value.
A multivalue also has
a notion of a primary.
Maybe you want to be able to have
a user interface when you say,
call Joe.
But Joe has five phone numbers.
So you can say this is
a primary phone number,
the primary value for Joe.
Or Joe has, in this example,
Joe's primary email is joe@mac.com,
even if he has six or seven emails.
So we have this notion
of a primary value.
Like any other collection
classes in the Cocoa framework,
we have two flavors of this class.
We have a ABMultiValue,
which is a non-mutable object,
and we have a MutableMultiValue.
So let's talk about multivalue first.
So what can you do with a multivalue?
You ask for the KAB emails property.
You're going to get an object
which is an AB multivalue.
What you can do now is be able
to say how many entries in there.
So if it's an email,
maybe it's going to be written five.
It means you have five emails.
You can also get the index.
If you have stored somewhere the
identifier for one of these emails,
you can get the index at the
present time for this identifier.
So you can get the
index for an identifier.
You can also ask for
the value at an index,
the label at an index,
or the identifier at an index.
You can also ask for
the primary identifier.
What is the identifier
for the primary email,
primary phone?
And you can ask for the type.
For example, if you have for email,
it's going to return KAB multi-string
property because every property
for an email is of type string.
So let's look at some sample
code using multivalue.
Let's say that I want to display
all the email addresses of a person.
So I have a person.
I'll show you later on
how to get to a person.
I have a person,
and I can ask for give me
the value for property,
email property.
I'm going to get back an AB multivalue,
which is all the email of this person.
I can count how many emails are there.
I can just do a loop
and log in the value,
the label, and the value for this person.
So I will get home one email, work,
another email.
So now the mutable multivalue.
This is a multivalue you can change.
The multivalue,
when you get it from value for property,
it's a non-mutable value.
So if you want to make
changes to this value,
to this multivalue,
you have to make it mutable.
So for a multiple multivalue,
you can add a value with a label,
and it returns the identifier for
this new value you just added,
if you care about it.
You can insert a value with
a label at a specific index.
You can remove a value
and a label at an index.
And you can replace either
the value or the label with
another value and another label.
And you can set the primary identifier,
saying this is the primary
phone number for this person.
So let's see some code here.
Let's say that I want to add
an email address to a person.
I have a person.
I asked for the list of email.
So I get a multi-value email.
But this is a non-mutable.
Every value returned by value
for property are non-mutable.
Either string, everything is non-mutable.
So I get the emails.
I make it mutable by
making a mutable copy.
So now I can add a new email,
joe@apple.com.
And this is his home email.
So I use the KAB home email label,
which is a standard label we provide.
And now I can simply set this
value again for the email property.
And because I made a copy,
I have to release my multi-value here.
So this adds a new email to a person.
So we talked about A/B record
and the properties.
Now let's get into details to the
real object you can manipulate,
like person and group.
So let's talk about person.
So person, A/B person,
is a subclass of A/B record,
and it represents a person.
So we have some standard
properties for Person.
I just put a couple here.
If you look at the header
or the documentation,
you'll see we have a bunch of
standard properties for Person.
So we have first name property,
which is of type string.
We have a last name,
We have a birthday, which is a date.
We have email, which is a multi-string.
We have a phone property,
which is a multi-string.
And we have also an address property,
which is a multi-dictionary property.
So I want to talk a
little bit about that.
When you think about address,
street address,
you can think about two ways.
You can say, "Oh,
give me the address of someone."
So an address is just a block of data.
It's just an address.
But sometimes you want to think of an
address as something that's a street,
a city, a zip code, a country,
a country code.
So to represent an address,
we use a dictionary,
which the key is the street, the city,
the zip code, whatever.
And because you can
have multiple addresses,
this is a multi-dictionary property.
This is the most complex type we have.
So like that,
you can deal with addresses as,
"Give me all your addresses.
Give me one address.
Or give me the street of address
home." You can deal with the
whole hierarchy of possible data.
ABRecord, as I said,
is a subclass of ABRecord,
so we have all the APIs of ABRecord,
set value for property, etc.
But also we have specific
APIs for ABRecord.
You can set an image on a person.
We don't use NSImage because
the Address Book Framework is
a foundation-level framework,
so we don't have access to
NSImage or things like that.
The only thing we have
access to is NSData.
So to set an image on a person,
you pass an NSData that contains the
TIFF representation for the image.
So you can say,
"Person set TIFF image from
data." And in the Address Book,
you're going to see the image showing up.
You can also get the image for a person.
And a person that belongs to a group.
So you can ask, give me a list of all the
groups this person belongs to.
Parent groups will return an array of
all the groups this person belongs to.
Maybe a person will support vCard,
so you can create a person from a vCard.
We support the full 3.0 specs.
So you can say, create init a person,
init with a vCard representation,
passing an NSData that contains
a vCard representation.
And you can also ask for the
vCard representation for a person.
So let's talk about AB Group now.
AB Group, like AB Person,
is a subclass of AB Record,
and it represents a group of
people or a group of other groups.
The only thing we don't
allow is circular reference,
so you can't have Group A being in
Group B and Group B being in Group A.
We don't allow that.
We return an error.
So aside from that,
you can have a group with
Person and other groups.
You can do every combination you want.
AB Group has only one
standard property we support,
which is the name of the group.
That's the only one we provide.
You can add the other one if you want,
the description or anything else.
This is the only standard
property we provide.
So, like AB Person, AB Group inherits all
the API from AB Record,
and he has a set of API that
are specific to AB Group.
You can ask for the
members of this group.
It will return an array of AB Person.
You can add a member, which is a person,
or you can remove a
member from this group.
same way with the other group,
you can ask,
give me all the subgroup of this group.
You can add a subgroup and
you can remove a subgroup.
And also you can say,
give me all the parent
group of this group.
Groups also have something
we call distribution lists.
This is only valid for
multi-value properties.
First name,
last name are single value properties,
so distribution lists don't work.
But everything that is multi-value,
phone, email, street,
you can create what we
call a distribution list.
It's most useful for emails,
which in email is called a mailing list.
You want to be able to send an
email to everybody in the group.
Distribution lists allow
you to do something like you
have a group called friends,
and you have a bunch of person in there.
Each one of them has
three or four emails,
but for each person you want
to pick one specific email.
For John, you want his home email,
but for Paul, you want his work email.
So distribution lists
allow you to do that,
to set up a distribution
list from a group.
So the API gets a little
more complex here.
So we have two APIs to deal
with distribution lists.
The first one, setDistributionIdentifier
for property person.
It means for a given person
belonging to a group,
for a property email,
I want to use this identifier,
which may be point to home,
the home email.
So you can set the
distribution list like that.
You can also get information
for a given person,
what is the identifier
for a given property.
So for person Joe, for property email,
what is the identifier
for this email address.
So you can build
distribution lists like that,
or mailing lists for emails.
You can do it for,
if you want to print labels or whatever,
you can also use that for street,
for phone numbers,
whatever property which
is a multi-value property.
This is the set distribution identifier,
identifier, the property, the person,
and here to get,
you want to pass the property
you want to talk about and which
person you are talking about.
This is API on AB group.
So we're going from the bottom,
AB record, AB person, AB group,
and now we are at the top,
which is the AB address book class.
So the Address Book object
represents basically the database.
It represents the
database of your contacts.
The location of the database is in tilde,
the home directory, library,
application support, address book.
You can only create one unique
instance of Address Book.
So if in your application you ask three
times for the Address Book object,
you're going to get
always the same instance.
And you can't create a new
instance of Address Book.
We always return the shared instance.
So the API on Address Book,
you can get the share instance.
Give me the share instance
of the Address Book.
You made some changes.
You want to be able to save,
or you want to be able to ask,
do I have anything to save?
Notice one point here that a
lot of our API return a Boolean,
depending if the
operation succeeds or not.
Most of our API return the Boolean just
to tell you the operation is successful.
We also, in Objective-C,
we raise exception.
If you pass a bad parameter,
we will raise an exception.
So, save, add and save changes.
We have the concept of a MIE.
MIE is the owner,
the person who is right now
logged into the machine.
So this is a very important concept.
A lot of applications may want to ask,
the only thing they care about the
address book is the MIE because you
want to get the shipping address or
you want to get some other information.
The MIE is the owner of the database.
The user in address book can set it up.
You may also not set it up.
So if you're using the MIE API,
be ready to get nil because
maybe the user never set it up.
So the API is to get the me person,
and so you can set the me person.
You can also get,
if you have a unique ID for a record,
you can get this record by
calling record for unique ID,
passing the unique ID.
Every record has a unique ID,
so you can save the
unique ID somewhere else.
You can get back the record
that has this unique ID.
You can add a record.
You can remove a record
from the database.
You can also ask for all the people and
all the groups that are in this database.
And we return an array of
AB person and an array of AB group.
So let's look at some sample code.
I want to add a person
to the database that's,
his name is Joe Doe.
So I have two variables,
an address book and the new person.
So first, I'm going to ask,
give me the share instance
of the address book class.
Then I can create a new person,
any person I look in it auto-release.
And then I can set my properties.
So I want to set his first
name and his last name.
So, new person, set value, John,
for property, first name.
New person, set value, Doe, for property,
last name.
And now I can add this
person to the database,
and I can save my changes.
So you can do a bunch of changes and
just save when you're ready to save.
Let's take another case.
I want to create a group named Friends,
and this group has two persons.
I don't have many friends, I suppose.
So Address Book, new group,
get the share instance
of the Address Book,
create a new group object.
Set the name of this group,
a big group named Property Friends.
And now I add my two
persons into this group,
Add Person, Person 1, Add Person,
Person 2.
And I can add this group to the database.
I assume here that the person
were already in the database,
the existing persons.
And I can save my changes.
So as you see, this is very, very simple.
Now we're getting to
something more interesting.
More often,
what you want to do with this kind
of database is do some search.
You want to search for something.
So the key API here is in
the Address Book class.
It records matching search elements,
and it will return an array of all the
records that match the search elements.
So what are those search elements?
So let's talk about search elements.
The search element is a
building block for query.
For example, you want to say,
"Find all the people that live
in New York and have a Mac.com
email address." That's your query.
So you will need three search elements.
The first one is,
"The home city of this person
is called New York." The second
search element would be,
"Find all the email
that contains Mac.com."
And the third element is a
combination of those two.
I want the first one and the second one.
So as you can see,
you can create little blocks and
combine them into one bigger sentence.
So how do you create a search element?
There are two methods to do that.
There are three, but I will talk about
the third one later.
The two important ones are there are
class methods on AB_PERSON and AB_GROUP.
So if you want to search people,
you're going to create a search
element using the AB_PERSON API.
If you want to create a search on groups,
you're going to create a search
element using the method on AB_GROUP.
[Transcript missing]
The property, I want to search emails,
I want to search addresses.
He has a label, I want to search home,
work.
He has a key.
The key is, for example,
for the multi-dictionary I talked before.
I want to search only on the street,
or on the zip code, or on the country.
And he has a value.
I want to search for John, for Paul.
And the type of comparison, contents,
greater or less.
We have a dozen of different
types of comparison.
So let's take an example.
It's much easier to understand
with an example than anything else.
So I want to search for all people
that have John as first name.
So I declare some variable address book,
a search element,
and the NNS array where I will
have the result of my query.
Get the shared address book.
And here I'm going to
create a search element.
So I'm looking for people,
so I create a search element by
calling a method on any person.
I'm searching for first name.
So, properties, first name.
First name is a single value.
There is no label, there is no key.
So I pass nil for the label,
nil for the key,
and I'm searching for John.
And I want to find an
equal case and sensitive.
Maybe I didn't type the upper case,
so I just want to be sure to find
everybody with the name John.
And I call Address Book,
record matching search element,
and it's passing my
element I just created,
and it's going to return an
array containing all the people
who have John as first name.
Let's take another example.
Search for all people living in New York.
Same thing.
All people, so I create a search
element on AB Person.
I'm searching for an address,
so the property is KAB Address Property.
I say live in New York,
so I want to only search
for the label "home."
And I say New York,
so the city is a city.
So the key here, because the street,
the...
An address is a dictionary.
The key is address city key.
And the value is New York.
Case and sensitive, also.
I may have not typed it correctly.
And address book, record matching,
search element,
and I get a result of all the
people who live in New York.
So now if you want to
make more complex search,
you want to combine them,
there is one other way to
create a search element.
And there is a method on
absearchelement itself where
you can combine sub-elements.
The function is called search
element for conjunction.
So the conjunction can be and and or,
and you pass an array of children.
So let's see how to do that.
So let's say we want to search for
all people that live in New York and
have a mac.com email address.
So declare a bunch of variables,
and it's three search elements.
I need an array to put all those
elements into the children for the query.
I need the result array for the result.
Get my address book shared instance.
And let's build those elements.
So I'm searching on AB Person.
This is the same as before.
Property address, home, address city key,
New York, case insensitive.
For the second one, the email.
I didn't say if it was the
home email or the work,
so I just used KAB email property.
I passed "nil" as a label.
I want to search for every email.
I don't care about the label.
Email is multistring, so there is no key.
I'm searching for mac.com,
and I'm searching for content substring.
I could also search for
"ends with mac.com."
So now I have my two search elements,
one for the city, one for the email,
and I need to combine them.
First I create an array
of those children,
put them together, and then I'm going to
create the third element,
saying, "I want to do an 'and'," and
this is all the children,
the two previous elements I've created.
And I call Address
Book Record Matching Search Element.
And it's going to return
the result of your query.
That's all for searching.
The next topic is notification.
The Address Book Framework
provides two notifications.
The first one,
KAB Database Change Notification,
means your process changes the database.
So you may want to listen
to this notification or not,
depending on how your
application is built.
You may not want to listen to it because
your application is making the change,
so you may change your UI.
You know that you've changed it,
so you don't care.
The other one means
KAB Database Change Externally,
means some other process
has changed the database.
You better listen to this one
because you may have to reflect
those changes into your UI.
New people were created,
new people were deleted,
so you have to do something.
So those are the two notifications.
One for, I've changed my database,
someone else has changed the database.
As I said also before,
you can extend the property set.
So we provide a set of
standard properties,
but you can add your own properties
if you want to add the height
of someone or anything you want.
Be careful with the property name.
It has to be unique,
so give him a unique name,
com.apple or com.mycompany.somethingelse.
So how do you add properties?
You can add properties on
either AB person or AB group,
whichever.
By the way,
when I say the name has to be unique,
it has to be unique in AB person.
You can have first name in
person and first name in group.
They are fine.
Just for an AB person,
all the properties have to be unique.
For an AB group,
Properties are added
and removed in batch.
It's more efficient for us.
You basically say add
properties and types,
and you pass a dictionary.
The dictionary is the key,
is the name of the property,
and the value is the
type of the property,
integer, real, date, et cetera.
We return the number of
properties we were able to add.
If you give me 10 and I return 9,
it means I wasn't able to add 10.
You can also remove properties.
Just pass me an array of
the names of the properties
We can also give you the property for,
for example, AB Person.
If you call AB Person properties,
you're going to get an array of
all the properties on Person.
And you can ask for the
type of a given property.
So if you give me
KAB first name property,
I'm going to return you a string.
So I'll show you Objective-C APIs,
but we fully support
C also in this framework.
So if you are a Carbon developer,
you can use the Address
Book Framework using the C APIs.
They are one-to-one matching between
the C APIs and the Objective-C APIs.
This is exactly the same APIs,
just the syntax is a bit different.
Classes, instead of being objects,
they are represented by OPEC type.
So we have AB Person Ref, AB Group Ref,
AB Multi-Value Ref.
This is very, very similar.
It's exactly the same
thing as the other CF,
the Core Foundation APIs.
So you have the same rule,
the same coding convention as any
other Core Foundation framework.
So, give an example here,
which is the example of creating
a person called John Doe.
Something, I AB get shared address book,
which return an address book ref.
I create a person, AB person create,
give me a person.
AB_RECORD_SET_VALUE passing the person,
the record in this case,
the CFSTR for the name,
and the KAB_FIRSTNAME property.
Set the value for the last name.
And I can now tell the address book,
add this record.
And don't forget to release the person.
You've done a call, AB create,
create bumps or fcounts,
so you have to release your object.
So I have to do a CF release person.
We also fully support AppleScript.
I think there was a demo during
the-- I think in this same room,
there was a demo of
AppleScript support in Address
Book during the AppleScript session.
So you have full access to all
the Address Book API-- Address
Book Framework API with AppleScript.
This API is accessed through
the Address Book application.
So you have to tell
application Address Book.
But you have full access to all the API.
So this is an example.
I want to list all the
emails for a person.
So tell application address book.
I say set all people to people.
People will return a list of
all the people in the database.
And now I'm going to repeat
with a person in all people.
And I'm going to say set all
emails to emails of a person.
So I'm going to get all
the emails of a person.
And I'm going to print the value going
through every email in a multivalue,
log the value for this email as a string.
So that's it.
Same process, different syntax,
but all the APIs are available.
So what I want to do now
is give you a short demo
address book framework,
the address book application.
So in the Jaguar, we have a brand new
address book application.
I'm sure you've seen it.
It was demoed at the keynote.
It was demoed several times
during this conference.
So this is basically the address book.
We try to have something
that looks like a card.
You can switch cards.
You can add notes at the bottom.
And so you can
very much like iTunes or
any other application.
You can do a quick search, so
The demo before was to
search for Fred Anderson.
I type Fred and I get,
it says here I have four Fred in
my database so I can continue.
And it says there is
only one Fred Anderson.
So I can also switch to go
around all my different threads.
So, a very well-known user interface,
very easy to use.
Something we try to do is that we
have also those rollovers here.
So for example, from a phone number you
can get a large type,
so you can read it on the screen.
You can also, from an email,
you can send email.
If it's a mac.com email,
you can visit the home
page of this person.
You can open the ID from this person.
If you have a URL,
you can go to the website.
And also you can,
if you have a street address,
you can also get a large type.
I don't know if I'm connected.
You can get a map of this address.
So you have great direct access to
all the information in this card.
If you want to change something,
you can always add a note to a card.
So you can always type inside the card.
And it's immediately indexed.
So if I type my name, I can see it.
And I go to some other card
and I search for Lamiraux.
He found two cards.
One is here, and one is my real card.
So immediate indexing of every
information you're typing.
If you want to change something,
you go to edit mode, and you can edit in
place your information.
You can add a new phone.
You can add a new email if you want, etc.
If you want to delete, just go there,
delete it, and it's gone.
And once deleted, we only show you the
information that's available.
You can also have access to groups.
So here I'm looking at
everything in my database.
So I'm listing everything contained here,
but I can also get access to groups.
If I want to move someone in a group,
it's easy.
Let's take Bruce Arthur,
move it into the emergency.
So just moving, dragging and moving,
you can easily... Bruce Arthur is here.
Notice here that I have a subgroup.
So emergency has a
subgroup which is doctor.
So a very simple user interface
based on the Address Book Framework,
and a lot of applications in Jaguar will
be using this Address Book Framework.
framework.
So as I said, Address Book Framework will
be available in Jaguar.
It's a brand new framework
available in Jaguar.
And we really stress if you have
anything to do with addresses,
with email, with phone,
we really want you to use it
because it's going to give our
user a much better user experience.
Everything will be in one place.
You can get the MiCard so you can
get access to shipping addresses.
You can have access to a lot of things.
You can have access to the image
of a person so you can display
that in some other application.
It's really an important piece
for a better user experience,
centralized information.
And as I said,
it's used extensively in Jaguar,
so you want your application
to play well with all the other
applications on the system.
And I would like to invite John Gilenzi,
who is the person to contact.
Monsieur John Gilenzi.